docs(apisix): wrote `Enable Upstream TLS` (#155)
api7/docs: apisix_versioned_docs/version-3.3.0/how-to-guide/traffic-management/tls-and-mtls/enable-upstream-tls.md

<br/>
  <div style={{textAlign: 'center'}}>
    <img src="https://static.apiseven.com/uploads/2023/05/10/YEowzK2g_tls-apisix-upstream.jpg" alt="TLS between APISIX and Upstream" width="70%"/>
  </div>
<br/>

## Prerequisite(s)

* Install [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker).
* Install [cURL](https://curl.se/) to send requests to the services for validation.
* Follow the [Getting Started tutorial](../../../getting-started/) to start a new APISIX instance in Docker.

## Create a Route With TLS Enabled

Create a route to an example upstream [httpbin.org](https://httpbin.org) on its default HTTPS port `443`:

```shell
curl -i "http://127.0.0.1:9180/apisix/admin/routes" -X PUT -d '
{
  "id": "quickstart-tls-upstream",
  "uri": "/ip",
  "upstream": {
# highlight-start
// Annotate 1
    "scheme": "https",
    "nodes": {
    // Annotate 2
      "httpbin.org:443":1
    },
# highlight-end
    "type": "roundrobin"
  }
}'
```

❶ Configure scheme as `https`

❷ Configure port as `443`

## Test TLS between APISIX and Upstream

Send a request to the route:

```shell
curl -i -k "http://127.0.0.1:9080/ip"
```

> An `HTTP/1.1 200 OK` response verifies that the TLS between APISIX and upstream is enabled successfully.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An `HTTP/1.1 200 OK` response verifies that APISIX has successfully established connection and communicated with the upstream service over HTTPS.
```

## Next Steps

> APISIX also supports TLS connection between clients and APISIX. See Enable Downstream TLS how-to guide for more details (coming soon).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
APISIX also supports TLS connection between clients and APISIX. See Enable Downstream TLS how-to guide for more details (coming soon).

[//]: <TODO: update section and link>
```

---
title: Enable Upstream TLS
slug: /how-to-guide/traffic-management/tls-and-mtls/enable-upstream-tls
---

> _TLS_ (Transport Layer Security) is a cryptographic protocol designed to secure communication between two parties, such as a web browser and a web server. Services often require TLS if traffic between the API gateway and upstream services is not considered secure or private.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_TLS (Transport Layer Security)_ is a cryptographic protocol designed to secure communication between two parties, such as a web browser and a web server. Services often require TLS if traffic between the API gateway and upstream services is not considered secure or private.
```

> _TLS_ (Transport Layer Security) is a cryptographic protocol designed to secure communication between two parties, such as a web browser and a web server. Upstream services may require TLS in cases where the traffic between the API gateway and upstream is not secure or private.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_TLS_ (Transport Layer Security) is a cryptographic protocol designed to secure communication between two parties, such as a web browser and a web server. Services often require TLS if traffic between the API gateway and upstream services is not considered secure or private.
```

This guide will show you how to configure TLS between APISIX and an upstream service.

<br/>
  <div style={{textAlign: 'center'}}>
    <img src="https://static.apiseven.com/uploads/2023/05/08/vEB6KSJI_tls-apisix-upstream.jpg" alt="TLS between APISIX and Upstream" width="70%"/>
  </div>
<br/>

## Prerequisite(s)

> * Install Docker.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Install [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker).
```

* Install [cURL](https://curl.se/) to send requests to the service for test.
* Follow the [Getting Started tutorial](../../../getting-started/) to start a new APISIX instance in Docker.

## Create a Route With TLS Enabled

Create a route to an example upstream [httpbin.org](https://httpbin.org) on its default HTTPS port `443`:

```shell
curl -i "http://127.0.0.1:9180/apisix/admin/routes" -X PUT -d '
{
  "id": "quickstart-tls-upstream",
  "uri": "/get",
  "upstream": {
# highlight-start
// Annotate 1
    "scheme": "https",
    "nodes": {
    // Annotate 2
      "httpbin.org:443":1
    },
# highlight-end
    "type": "roundrobin"
  }
}'
```

❶ Configure scheme as `https`

❷ Configure port as `443`

## Test TLS between APISIX and Upstream

> Send a request to `http://127.0.0.1:9080/get`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Send a request to the route:
```
repetitive
